

This a model from the article:  
**Ionic mechanisms underlying human atrial action potential properties: insights from a mathematical model.**   
Courtemanche M, Ramirez RJ, Nattel S. _Am J Physiol_ 1998 Jul;275(1 Pt
2):H301-21 [9688927](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9688927) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The mechanisms underlying many important properties of the human atrial action
potential (AP) are poorly understood. Using specific formulations of the K+,
Na+, and Ca2+ currents based on data recorded from human atrial myocytes,
along with representations of pump, exchange, and background currents, we
developed a mathematical model of the AP. The model AP resembles APs recorded
from human atrial samples and responds to rate changes, L-type Ca2+ current
blockade, Na+/Ca2+ exchanger inhibition, and variations in transient outward
current amplitude in a fashion similar to experimental recordings. Rate-
dependent adaptation of AP duration, an important determinant of
susceptibility to atrial fibrillation, was attributable to incomplete L-type
Ca2+ current recovery from inactivation and incomplete delayed rectifier
current deactivation at rapid rates. Experimental observations of variable AP
morphology could be accounted for by changes in transient outward current
density, as suggested experimentally. We conclude that this mathematical model
of the human atrial AP reproduces a variety of observed AP behaviors and
provides insights into the mechanisms of clinically important AP properties.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Courtemanche M, Ramirez RJ, Nattel S. (1998) -
version03**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/courtemanche_ramirez_nattel_1998_version03)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny, J**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
Oxford University  
Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

